Towards fonts

If the font is legible, the font is correct. 


Text is written in rows. 

The rows are made of rectangles containing letters and the spaces between them.
The letters before and after a space determine the space. 

A rectangle that will contain a letter is subdivided.
The subdivision is the same for every letter; that is part of a font's definition. 

Letters are constructed from a standard set of parts; the parts are constructed using
the font's subdivisions of the letter grid. 

No letter makes use of all the subdivisions. 

The fewer the subdivisions, the easier it is for the eye to detect similarities in letters. 
This is like musical harmony. It probably makes the font more legible, because the reader
needs to do less work to identify letters and their parts. 

Too few subdivisions disrupts the reader's ability to distinguish the letters easily. 


Different fonts use different letter parts. 


To define a library for font construction, first define a "row" object that enables the
easy construction of rows of rectangles. There will be a "cursor" on the row, marking the 
place that the last letter was added to the row. 

Rows are not filled in abstract; to break a row into specific parts requires a specific text. 

To break up the row, you use a font object. 

Row objects are broken into glyph and kern boxes. Each glyph box contains a specific letter
in a specific font. A letter's glyphBox may depend on the preceeding and following letter. 
The kernBox may depend on the preceeding and following letters. 

Or not! you can just make all the letters the same width and set all kerns to 0 width. 

Objects so far: rows, fonts, glyphBox, kernBox. 

The glyphBox can be broken into standard parts; then drawing the letter in the box can be just
filling in parts of the box. 

External inputs to the fonts have, historically, been limited to "height" (implying width), 
the angle of the vertical with the base line ("italic"), and maybe "stroke width"
But the WHOLE POINT of this is to allow more inputs. The idea of a font "family" has been 
driven by printing technology, and the difficulty of interface design. 

So I think the gestalt of the design ends here: fonts have one set of routines that break up rows, 
and another to break up glyphBoxes, another to convert boxes to letter forms, 
and the specifics of these are left to the creative. 

-----
But. Much can be done at this level if one is willing to generalize and accept some arbitrary, 
historically-accidental, but quite conventional, constraints. And choose a language!

One can dispose of kernBoxes and build the kern into the glyphBox. One can look at only one letter 
at a time. 

The letters of the roman alphabets are mostly constructed from 20 parts. 
1 glyphBox width is fine. 3-5 is common: i, a, m/A, W/#, 

A
B
C
D
I
K
Q
a
b
d
e
i
l
m
p
q
z

